MISUSING DISPENSATION - NO MORE!

We're taught that God gave us a Bible that was partially obsolete even before it was canonized and has become even more obsolete by dispensation advancements since then
    ...even though the Bible itself says "The secret things belong unto the LORD our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children FOR EVER, that we may do all the words of this law" (Deut. 29:29) and "Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come" (I Cor. 10:11).

In Christianity we have a bewildering number of denominational divisions and schisms disagreeing with each other over which scriptures are obsolete
    ...even though we are commanded "...that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment" (I Cor. 1:10), "I hear that there be divisions among you..." so "...there must be also heresies among you..." (I Cor 11:18), and "....there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another" (I Cor. 12:25).

We're taught that Jesus is coming imminently for His bride while we're still in this condition
    ...even though the Bible says Jesus will "...sanctify and cleanse it [us] with the washing of water by the word, That he might present it [us] to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it [we] should be holy and without blemish" (Eph. 5:26-27).

We observe that, though God has put the Bible into the public domain, a dispensation decryption key must float around in the possession of some secret society of theologians, commentators, and pastors, who we are supposed to do as the Thessalonians did, "...received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God..." (I Th. 2:13)
    ...even though the Bible says that the Bereans "...were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so" (Acts 17:11).

The specific verses that we're taught are obsolete are IMMEDIATELY adjacent to other verses we know not to be obsolete and lack ANY scripture guideline ANYWHERE to differentiate between them that way.  CHURCH LEADERS, DO YOU WANT YOUR CONGREGANTS TO READ THE BIBLE BUT JUST NOT BELIEVE IT?  OR WILL YOU REBUKE THOSE WHO READ WITH A BELIEVING HEART AND SEE THESE THINGS FROM THEIR BIBLES?  Isn't it astonishing that church leaders get so upset at someone who chooses to believe God, who gives them righteousness for doing so (Rom. 4:5), above the pulpit's contrary words?  In all seriousness, do they really think the Bride has made herself ready when she brazenly says some of God's words are satanic rather than be washed by them?

As long as the term "dispensation" is misunderstood and misused, these unbecoming and wrongful contrasts cannot be reconciled.  They are unavoidable consequences of that blemish in the Bride - a blemish that needs to be washed by the water of the word.  All capital letters would be appropriate for me to say this: I appeal, not to any perceived authority in my words or lack thereof, but to these words' fidelity to God's heart and befitting this season of His calendar - His soon-arriving Kingdom.  There are times for Him to wink at blemishes and when we can be cavalier to reckon them to low priority, but not right now standing at the threshhold of this next season.  A less cavalier approach should be in the hearts of those of us who want to be most fit to enter this coming Kingdom age.

We're taught that while "dispensation" technically means "administration", it is still perfectly fine to use it as a synonym of "age" or "time"
    ...even though none, zero, not a single instance of the nine times dispensation is used by Jesus and the Apostle Paul does it ever remotely refer to a time nor time period.  It bears repeating, not even remotely!  The nine locations of the term are these: (Bible version abbreviations are courtesy http://biblegateway.com/versions/)

1) Luke 16:2,3,4 (Greek texts);
2) 3 times of Paul's COMMISSION to preach the Gospel (i.e., his JOB) 1 Corinthians 9:17
     (Greek texts, BRG, DRA, GNV, KJV, AKJV, WYC), Ephesians 3:2 (Greek texts, KJ21, ASV,
     BRG, DRA, GNV, JUB, KJV, NKJV, WYC), Colossians 1:25  (Greek texts, KJ21, ASV, BRG,
     DARBY, DRA, GNV, JUB, KJV, AKJV, RGT, WYC);
3) 2 times in referring to a WORK of God - Ephesians 3:9 (some but not all Greek texts,
     ASV, DRA, WYC), 1 Timothy 1:4 (some but not all Greek texts, ASV, DARBY);
4) 1 time in Ephesians 1:10 (Greek texts, KJK21, ASV, BRG, DRA, GNV, JUB, KJV, AKJV, NKJV, RGT, WYC) referring to
     "the dispensation of the end of times", a TASK that happens to be stated more clearly in the parallel chapter
     to this, Colossians 1, where verse 20 specifically states that TASK, also found in Acts 3:21 where it also
     is clearly a TASK for a future "time".  These references are consistently "time of a "task", not "time of a
     time" as would be the case in Eph 1:10 if time and dispensation were synonyms.

The summation of all that follows herein is this: Deut 29:29 stands in opposition - and as an alternative - to the current widespread misunderstanding of the term "dispensation":

"The secret things belong unto the LORD our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law."

...pointing out that "for ever" means NOT "until the end of this dispensation", like the unbelief accompanying a misunderstanding of "dispensation" dictates.

STOP here until you understand those words.  Continuing further without understanding those words is just a waste of your time.  Also STOP anytime throughout this if your Bible
knowledge is too weak to be absolutely certain of the Bible context of any of these scriptures I use.  Know your Bible, and have enough confidence your Bible knowledge to base your beliefs in scripture rather than my words. I am not your personal Matthew Henry.

Now you might legitimately ask for specifics; like, a discussion about "dispensation" is boring - is it REALLY worth my time?  And - what things are so important to believe that we don't believe because of this misunderstanding?  And - why will a correct understanding of "dispensation" result in belief where I might now have unbelief?  And - what is the correct definition of "dispensation", anyway?  As I continue, I am keeping all those concerns of yours in mind.  Most of all though, I want your life to be more conformed to Kingdom of Heaven living as a result of simply believing ALL that God tells us.  I want your life, my life, to be FIT
to live in the Kingdom about to be manifest on earth, just like we've been praying for for 2 millenia.  There are a few things about our beliefs we need to change to be more FIT to  enter the Kingdom that God is right now in the process of putting on earth.

Before continuing any farther, I want to state parenthetically but most importantly that Jesus Christ is Lord of all, and He has come in the flesh, given the blood of His sinless life for the redemption of mankind, for cleansing from all sin, and to reconcile all things unto Himself. (Acts 3:20, I Cor 12:3, Col 1:20, I Jn 1:7;2:2;4:2,3)  He is the Way, the Truth, and the Life, and no man comes to the Father but by Jesus. (Jn 14:6)

Now please receive in the next couple paragraphs or so  my sincere belaboring on the importance of choosing to hold to God's written word where it needs to displace wayward teachings we all have received from pulpits, commentaries and Bible study aids of man's authorship instead of God's.  (Anything copyrighted makes the claim to be of human authorship, and God's Word is by necessity in the public domain)

Ps. 138:2 teaches us that God has magnified His word above all His Name, meaning that even though He has authority to to do contrary to His Word, He has determined not to.  Ps. 138:2 invites us to hold God to His Word being the highest standard, and according to II Pe. 1:18-19, the written Word is more sure than hearing God's voice from heaven. It should be abundantly obvious from these two verses, not to mention many others, that we are to let the authority of the written scripture rule in all matters it addresses, including how the term "dispensation" is used.

The prevalent connotation of the term "dispensation" is one of the segments of time as the Bible implicitely segments time into.  The actual denotation of the term is "administration".

I cannot emphasize enough that NEITHER of those definitions is anything even close to the true meaning as used in the Bible!  And this is NOT a harmless misunderstanding!

An argument could be made that "administration" and "dispensation" are synonyms, but  NOT ANY MORE.  Maybe in olde Englishe that argument could be made, but today's  synonyms for dispensation are words like "commission", "job", "assignment", or [a good] "work".  EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THE NINE OCCURANCES OF THE GREEK WORD FOR DISPENSATION CONFORMS TO THIS.  NEVER, EVER CAN ANY OF THEM BE STRETCHED INTO BEING A SYNONYM FOR ANYTHING WHATSOEVER TO DO WITH TIME.

The proof of that assertion is in the reading and is an easy slam-dunk, but an even more urgent point is this - the end result of this discussion will NOT be to promote worship on Saturday or to observe Judaism's other teachings.  Paul's epistles to the Galatians and Romans, and Acts 15 are among the scriptures against Gentiles doing so in hopes they obey God by observing His commands to Israel.  Nonetheless, you WILL be challenged to receive a few scriptures that you've been taught NOT to believe, but you've never really had a clear reason why we shouldn't believe them.  You've never had a clear reason to not believe because there is no such reason in the Bible nor consistent with the Bible.

If you'd rather maintain the status quo connotation of "dispensation", think about why.  Safe, at least temporally; company to agreement; you're comfortable with that complexity; but most of all, you don't think you capable of comprehending the flawed rationale of scholars.  The scholars, whoever they are, that write the reference book and dictionary entries for the term "dispensation" stand a better chance of being right about it than I do, right?   It's that last point that we'll meet head-on right now.

We start by seeing the indisputable fact (I emphasize this!) that the term "dispensation" as used by Jesus and the Apostle Paul ALWAYS refers to someone's JOB or COMMISSION or DUTY, OBLIGATION or ENDEAVOR.  Then, EVEN MORE IMPORTANT, we'll show how the prevalent connotation is incompatible with a number of scripture verses besides just Deut 29:29 shown above.  Then we'll examine why historically the current connotation became accepted by scholars.  Without addressing each of these points with unbiased intellectual honesty and with a rationale you can unreservedly hold to, I will expect you to remain steadfast to the status quo.  (As an aside, David Robert Palmer publishes some very good insight as a Bible translator, but none on the term "dispensation".  I'd like his someday...)

The Strong's number for the Greek term of dispensation is 3622, and the transliteration from the Greek is "oikonomia".  It is used 9 times in the entire Bible, two of those occurances being arguably debateable, but even so, those two questionable ones still conform to the useage and context of the other 7 occurances.

On the other hand, the transliteration of the Greek term for "age" is "aión", and the Strong's Greek number is 165...totally etymologically unrelated to 3622 "oikonomia".  "Aión" in its various forms is used some 125 times in the New Testament.  ALWAYS clearly referring to a time period or time eternal, never to a JOB or COMMISSION or DUTY, OBLIGATION or ENDEAVOR.  Some sources will use the term "age" as in "the New Testament age".  The problem with that is _likely_ the Deut 29:29 useage of "for ever" is still again disregarded and still no Scripture context explicitly teaches those unbeliefs.

In case you would lightly forgive wrong useage of "dispensation" and so decide "age" is a better term  with which to carry forward the unbelief, so that you'd think all we have to do is change out "dispensation" for "age" and all is well, STOP!  There has been deceit or incompetence in the manner that "dispensation" has been taught to us...let's take that as serious as it warrants - very, as I've already hinted to!  If the Bible teachers, scholars and preachers have deceitully OR INCOMPETENTLY misappropriated the term "dispensation" like I'm showing you they have, you need to question their standing optherwise to simply rename the corral that contains the same dispensation-connected unbeliefs.  In a large or small way, I and they - yes, my previous self included - have made fools of us with the unbelief they've taught us.  I beg you to think about that sincerely.  The whole point of this presentation is to expose the unbeliefs that insist Bible-day works of God are now obsolete...specifically how those unbeliefs are propagated in the name of name of "dispensation", but if they are propagated in the name of "age", that is just as unbiblical and problematic and incompetence can then be ruled out in favor of intentional deceit!  Receive God's words, not man's, and expect righteousness for doing so. (Rom. 4:3)  Can mere men, authors of Bible dictionaries and commentaries, offer you righteousness for believing them?  Yet God does do that for believing Him.  According to Ps 119:99-100 you can have more understanding than all those teachers when you hold God's Word higher than theirs; you can understand more than the ancients, because you hold to God's precepts when they differ from the commentary and dictionary authors.  Open up your grasp to what you've heretofore been taught from the pulpit of Bible study materials, not so much in entirety, but do so where God's written word clearly disagrees with it.

Remember the contrast between the Thessalonians and the more noble Bereans: the Apostle Paul commended the Thessalonians in I Thess. 2:13 "For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe."  Yet even with such high praise, the Bereans are called "more noble" in Acts 17:11 "These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so."  The difference here between commendable and more noble is the extent to which the written Word is magnified, and my hope right here is to encourage you to aspire to noble.  See in what follows that I am offering you scriptures, not regurgitated sermon talk points.  Know that the scriptures (knowledge of, obedience to, declaring of, application of, etc.) are where great power is, and multi-faceted power, at that (a huge number of of scriptures tell of this).  Judge whether these scriptures are in context and worthy of all acceptance, or out of context and unrightly divided.  I've determined to use them in context and rightly divided.

Here, now, is the evidence...what God says and offers us righteousness to believe.

For the very first 3 Bible occurances of "dispensation" Jesus uses it in Luke 16:2,3,4.  Jesus tells how the unjust steward was told that he was about to lose his "DISPENSATION"...his JOB.  His master was telling that unjust steward that he was about to get FIRED.  The other 6 occurances of the term are used by the Apostle Paul, and they refer to

1) 3 times of Paul's commission to preach the Gospel (i.e., his JOB - 1 Corinthians 9:17, Ephesians 3:2, Colossians 1:25), or
2) 2 times in referring to a WORK of God (Ephesians 3:9, 1 Timothy 1:4 but presumeably not included in some manuscripts), or
3) one time in Ephesians 1:10 referring to "the dispensation of the end of times", which happens to be stated more clearly in the parallel chapter to Ephesians 1 - that chapter being Colossians 1, where verse 20 specifically states that TASK.  When you look, you'll see in a couple of these passages that, once he mentions it, he dwells just a little more on the term "dispensation", so great was his passion about his own.  But NEVER is the term "dispensation" used in the Bible to refer to ANY time or period of time.  Never.  It's ALWAYS a JOB...a TASK...a WORK.  After reading the occurances using the correct synonyms, we'll see if the currently popular connotation makes any sense at all, and if it fits the understanding of simplicity, as in "...the simplicity that is in Christ..." (II Cor 11:3)

Expansion of #1 above...these are self-evident that they mean JOB or COMMISSION or DUTY, OBLIGATION:

1 Corinthians 9:16-17 - "For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel!  For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but if against my will, a dispensation _of_the_gospel_(italicized) is committed unto me." The three italicized words are not in the untranslated epistle so that "necessity is laid upon" = "dispensation is committed".

Ephesians 3:2 - "if indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me for you,"

Colossians 1:25 - "Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;"

Important: Paul never says "...my dispensation...", but rather "...a dispensation...unto me..." or "...the dispensation...to me...".  Yet it is nonetheless self-evidently synonymous with his personal portion of the Great Commission.  Read the verses again if you question that.

Expansion of #2 above:

Ephesians 3:9 (ASV) - "...and to make all men see what is the dispensation of the mystery which for ages hath been hid in God who created all things;"  (ASV is one of a minority of translations that remain true from Greek to English to retaining the term dispensation for clarification here)
The required context for v.9 is set in the prior verse "Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;" (KJV)  Bear in mind that Paul's mere mention 7 verses earlier of the term dispensation started him into this prolonged statement of "his" commission, if you will - the dispensation and grace to preach the Gospel to the Gentiles as in v.6.  (Paul uses the word grace in vs.2,7 & 8 to refer to God's provision for Paul to carry out the dispensation to him - his work of preaching the gospel as delineated in v.6.)  Consistent with v.2, 1 Corinthians 9:17, and Colossians 1:25 Paul does not say "...my dispensation...", but rather "...the dispensation...".  So regardless of whether the article is definite or indefinite, the point still stands that the term means JOB or COMMISSION or DUTY, OBLIGATION as it does above.  Try synonym swapping - "...to make all men see [learn] what is [God's new endeavor/work-in-progress] heretofore a mystery..." makes much more sense than "...to make all men see what is [the age] heretofore a mystery...".  Observe also in v.5 the term "ages" is correctly used in the way "dispensation" is often misused: "...Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit...".  IF "AGE" AND "DISPENSATION" WERE SYNONYMS LIKE MOST PEOPLE THINK OF THEM, V.5 WOULD BE THE RIGHT PLACE FOR "DISPENSATION" TO BE USED.  That bears repeating ad infinitum!  If you doubt that whatsoever, read the entire chapter in context until it sinks in!



Expansion of #3 above:


I hope now you're better able to know why you were so uncomfortable explaining away many scripture verses that church life obviously doesn't line up with.

I Cor 1:10
Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.  This will be impossible if we continue misusing dispensation, plain and simple

