Relevancy of the Law of Moses
The context for this work is found by first reading "DYSUSING DISPENSATION - NO MORE!"

Following the principle of simplicity in Christ, we understand the relevancy of the Law of Moses from a "believing without doubt" type of reading of scriptures.  Can you find anywhere in the Bible that eternal life in the hereafter; i.e., personal salvation, is promised for obeying the Law of Moses?  Neither can I.  See for yourself that the Law of Moses has a different, Israel-specific purpose:

Ex. 19:5 - "...if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine: And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation"
Deut. 4:1 - "...that ye may live, and go in and possess the land..."
Deut. 4:6 - "...for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people...."
Deut. 4:40 - "...that it may go well with thee, and with thy children after thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days upon the earth, which the Lord thy God giveth thee, for ever..."
Deut. 5:29 - "...that it might be well with them, and with their children for ever!"
Deut. 5:33 - "...that it may be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess."
Deut. 6:2 - "...that thy days may be prolonged..."
Deut. 6:3 - "...that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily..."

I could go on and on and on, but the conclusion of the matter is that the Law of Moses was given for the reasons simply stated in scriptures, never for personal salvation.  This means that salvation by grace through faith does not replace the Law of Moses like is often thought by people who misunderstand the term "dispensation".  Apostle Paul makes it abundantly clear in his epistles that personal salvation was and will always be by grace through faith without the Law of Moses.  Then, when all Israel receives Christ, the Gentiles will be blessed on the same level as being blessed by being raised from the dead (Rom. 11).  A fully engaged reading of Rom. 11 and nearby chapters will raise the thought "Since the Gentiles get their own blessing when all Israel receives Christ, Israel must get uniquely blessed even more."  A reasonable scenario for those unique blessings on Israel when they come to Christ is that all Israel will receive their unique national blessings exactly BECAUSE they will once again obey the Law of Moses.  (As of this writing, I can only suggest that is a reasonable scenario.)  Of course, they will have the revelation that they no longer observe the shadow but the very image (Heb. 10:1).

Even allowing for some other scenario, the fact remains that the purposes for the Law of Moses are not superseded by any scriptures verse I've seen, given that Apostle Paul writes to Gentiles only when dissuading anyone from observing it.
